a.
i) Problem definition:
producer-consumer problem using bounded
buffer whose size is 10. (this means the buffer only can store 10 messages.) For this, there will
be one program creating two threads (one for producer and the other for consumer) which act as
different processes. After 15 seconds of running, the program (both producer and consumer
threads) should be terminated gracefully without any error.

ii)Proposed solution:

Producer
1. Check if Buffer is full or not. If full, then wait() for buffer items to get consumed.

2. Generate data and put it into Buffer.

3. Notify Consumer that Data has been placed into Buffer.

4. Repeat step 1-3

Consumer
1. Check if Buffer has items. If empty, then wait() for buffer to get filled.

2. Consume data from Buffer.

3. Notify Producer that Data has been consumed from Buffer

4. Repear step 1-3

Mian 

1.Create ArrayBlockingQueue which will store messages

2.Create producer and consumer thread and pass ArrayBlockingQueue as argument

3.Start the threads


b) Results :

Producer
“current time”, Placing 0 in the buffer location 0.
“current time”, Placing 1 in the buffer location 1.
“current time”, Placing 2 in the buffer location 2.
…
“current time”, Placing 9 in the buffer location 9.
“current time”, Placing 10 in the buffer location 0.
“current time”, Placing 11 in the buffer location 1.
…
“current time”, Placing 14 in the buffer location 4.
“current time”, Placing 0 in the buffer location 5.
“current time”, Placing 1 in the buffer location 6.
“current time”, Placing 2 in the buffer location 7.

Consumer
“current time”, Consuming 0 from the buffer location 0.
“current time”, Consuming 1 from the buffer location 1.
“current time”, Consuming 2 from the buffer location 2.
…
“current time”, Consuming 9 from the buffer location 9.
“current time”, Consuming 10 from the buffer location 0.
“current time”, Consuming 11 from the buffer location 1.
…
“current time”, Consuming 14 from the buffer location 4.
“current time”, Consuming 0 from the buffer location 5.
“current time”, Consuming 1 from the buffer location 6.
“current time”, Consuming 2 from the buffer location 7.

c) No Bugs
